I wanna say a little bit about
differentiating for different audiences,
if that's all right.
There's the B2B audiences,
and there's B2C audiences.
So if you're targeting B2B, you,
I think, probably wanna slightly
different approach than if you're
targeting two end consumers.
It's very easy to think,
I'm building a SaaS app, so
I'm targeting end consumers, but
oftentimes, that's not the case.
So B2B, there's kind of three ways
of of differentiating via audience.
You could differentiate with verticals,
so can say,
I'm going to build a product that
targets a particular sector and
is going to accommodate
their particular needs.
So for example, I am going to build a
content management system that is designed
specifically to meet the content needs
of the higher education sector, right?
And a product exists that's like that.
And so they managed to thrive in a world
of big players like WordPress and
Drupal, and stuff like that because
they meet the very specific
needs of that vertical, right?
Another one is to
differentiate based on size.
So if your competitors are all focusing
at the enterprise level of the market,
trying to sell to the the IBMs and
the Nike's and people like that,
then you can focus on the SME
side of the market or vice versa.
So you can differentiate with size,
and then finally,
you can differentiate via region.
Focus on a specific country or a specific
region to accommodate their unique
situation, whether that be legal,
whether it be language, whatever.
Now with B2C, it's slightly different,
but not dissimilar.
So if you wanna differentiate from
your competitors in a B2C market,
business-to-consumer, then you might wanna
consider focusing on different interests.
So you might be creating a app that
allows you to organize information,
right, a notion style app.
And while notion has gone very broad and
have gone to everybody,
you could say, well, I'm gonna
build an information organization
app just aimed at people that
play fantasy football, right?
Or do something, various other interests.
So you can kind of segment
via the interest groups, and
either hone in while your
competitors go broad, you go niche,
or while they focus on one interest group,
you focus on another interest group.
And then there's demographics.
If a competitor focuses on
a particular age group or
a particular level of education,
you can focus elsewhere.
So there, they might be focusing on
the youth market, you might focus on
the over 50s market, which by the way,
is the coolest market, right?
I just wanna say that.
Gen X?
Yeah, the Gen X market, we're
the people you should be focusing on,
nobody loves us.
And then the third again,
you could do regions,
that's the other way of doing it there.
So she can differentiate via audience.
And actually,
audience is the way that I most like to
differentiate because
I like to niche down.
And a kind of related way to that is you
can differentiate through community as
well, and that kinda goes hand
in hand with audience as well.
I find community building a really good
way of differentiating from competitors,
cuz a lot of competitors,
in my experience,
treat their customers like cash counts.
They're just numbers that generate income.
And the really successful businesses
are ones that try to build
a sense of community.
And, I'm sorry, I keep coming
back to Frontend Masters cuz it's
obviously a common example that we all
share, is a great example of this.
They're very good at engaging
with their community,
they've got discord channels,
they've got blogs, they've got podcasts.
There's a lot more than just their core
offering that exists to build a sense of
community.
They provide great support,
which is a critical part
of any community building.
And they're listening to their customers,
they're getting feedback the whole time.
But also, you can build
community in other ways as well.
And this doesn't apply so
much to Frontend Masters, but
you can allow people to create things
using your platform, using your thing,
whether it be create templates or plugins
or build their own web apps on your thing.
Which is the kind of opposite of what
we were talking about earlier, and
when we were talking about building
on other people's platforms,
you can actually encourage people to make
use of your platform and theirs, as well.
And then you can also build community,
and again,
Frontend Masters is a great example of
this one, through thought leadership.
I hate that term was so,
such a passion, but
I couldn't think of another
one that was better.
Yeah, by basically providing advice and
articles and
teaching people, which is what
Frontend Masters is all about, right?
So there are lots of
ways to build community.
I mean,
a great example of this is Figma actually,
that Figma ticks most of those boxes.
I don't think its customer support
is amazing, it's a write in it, but
it's not incredible.
But the other two areas, they do very
well, so they've got this whole community
area where people can create plugins,
where they can create templates.
There's a lot of sharing of
material that goes on there.
There's also a lot of learning
material around Figma.
It provides a lot of thought leadership,
that kind of stuff.
But customer support is a great
way of differentiating itself.
And there's loads of ways you can do that,
offering 24/7 support.
And you might think, well, that's too
much for me to do of my lonesome, but
it is possible to, there are services that
will provide that kind of thing if you
feel you're gonna
differentiate in that way.
Responding fast makes a huge difference,
just getting back to people quickly.
Personalizing it, have you ever
written to a customer support and
you get the result back, and it's like
you haven't listen to what I've said,
you've just sent me a canned response.
It's the most annoying thing in the world.
There's multi channel,
being able to contact people through
whatever channel you prefer.
And then there's community driven support
where the community supports itself.
Publishing your roadmap of what you're
planning to do next is a great way of
engaging with your community and
showing support to your customers.
And then offering self-service
support through help documents,
knowledge base, et cetera.
You can also differentiate
through flexibility.
So allowing people to customize your
app in a way that the competition
doesn't allow from what it
outputs to the user interface.
Opening up APIs where people can basically
build whatever they want on your app.
If your competition aren't
doing that very well,
that could be a way of differentiating.
Offering a plugin into architecture
can sometimes be appropriate,
as well as ways of differentiating.
And you can differentiate
with branding as well.
I know as an audience that's primarily
developers, you might poo poo that
a little bit and think that that's all
just icing on the cake and prettiness.
But branding is not more than just the
kind of pretty interface side of things
and the colors and stuff you choose.
It's also your value of proposition,
right?
How you explain your app and
the benefits that it provides that
sets it apart from the competitors.
It's the tone of voice that you use.
While your competitors might be
super formal and enterprise, and
you could be chatty and
humorous, right, or vice versa.
You can pick a different tone of voice and
you can also use a different
design language.
Where maybe everybody else is really
formal and stuffy and you can come in as
something that's more casual and
more approachable, yeah, go for it.
I was just thinking about
liquid death is water?
[LAUGH] Yeah.
It's just water, it's liquid death and
it's looks like you're drinking a beer or
something, but it's just water.
Yeah.
And somehow like a billion
dollar company or something.
And we have some, I think,
in the fridge, whatever.
Yeah, but I mean,
that's a very extreme example of that.
But you can do a more middle example,
I mean, I used to love Mailchimp.
They've lost a lot of it now, but they
really knew how to tailor their voice and
their tone to their audience and
differentiate all themselves from
all the other competitors in the market,
which were all kinda very staid and
corporate and they had this
much more younger funky tone.
But it was a tone that adapt based
on how people were feeling and
what was going on in the app.
And they had little design delighters
like when they sent an email,
you had a little kind of high five to you.
And you know that if you repeatedly
clicked on that high five,
if you high-fived it back with your
cursor, the hand would slowly go red?
[LAUGH]
It's just brilliant.
So yeah,
those kinds of things add personality and
connect in a way that maybe more
staid competitors aren't gonna.
And before you say, there are some
people that will be sitting there going,
well, I kinda wanna aim at
a corporate market, right?
Just because you're aiming at a corporate
market doesn't mean you have to be boring,
right?
Because ultimately,
every person that works in that
corporation is a human being.
They laugh at fart jokes just
the same as everybody else, right?
And the thing that I always say
is if the CIA was able to add
humor into their Twitter stream,
then your corporate application can.
The very first tweet that CIA ever
published was, we can neither confirm nor
deny this is our Twitter channel.
[LAUGH] Brilliant, right?
And that's the CIA, so
you can always use humor.
You can always add personality,
you can always be a human being.
I work with people in
really large enterprise
customers and
I'm like this the whole time.
Sometimes people don't like me, but
people don't like me in real life as well,
so it's nothing to do with
the corporate environment.
So you do all of this market research and
I wanna say it, right?
And I'm gonna keep saying it and
it does sound a bit negative,
but it's okay to get to the end
of that and walk away, right?
It's okay to say no this
isn't a valid idea, and
it's hard to do that if it's been your
baby that you've got excited about,
but you'll have another baby
that you get excited about.
So just to wrap up this kind of
market segment part of it, basically,
take the time to broadly define
your niche before you even begin.
Otherwise, you're gonna have no
kind of structured work with him.
Find the competitors in the niche,
review those competitors so
you really understand them, and
then use that to identify gaps and
ways to differentiate
yourself in the marketplace.